Add What's New in v1.0 page (#820)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/spec/v1.0/whats-new.md

---
title: What's new in SLSA v1.0
description: SLSA v1.0 is the first stable release of SLSA. This document describes what has changed since v0.1.
---

SLSA v1.0 is the first stable release of SLSA, creating a solid foundation on
which future versions can expand. This document describes the major changes in
v1.0 relative to the prior release, [v0.1].

## Summary of changes

SLSA v1.0 significantly reworked the specification in response to ongoing
feedback, filed issues, suggestions for course corrections, and other input from
the SLSA community and early adopters. Overall, the changes prioritize
simplicity, practicality, and stability.

Overall, SLSA v1.0 is more stable and better defined than v0.1, but less
ambitious. It corresponds roughly to the build and provenance requirements of

> the prior version's SLSA 1 thru SLSA 3, deferring SLSA 4 and the source and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the prior version's SLSA 1 through SLSA 3, deferring SLSA 4 and the source and
```

Author: Doh! I was thinking of [till vs until](https://www.merriam-webster.com/words-at-play/should-you-use-until-or-till-or-til), where "till" is actually the older form.

> the prior version's SLSA 1 through SLSA 3, deferring SLSA 4 and the source and

Author: Done. (With a slightly shorter "SLSA Levels 1 through 3" - please comment if you disagree.)

common requirements to a future version. The rationale is explained
[below][stability].

Other significant changes:

-   [Division of the levels into multiple tracks][tracks], which are separate

>     sets of levels that measure a particular aspect of software supply chain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    sets of levels that measure different aspects of software supply chain
```

    make it easier to understand and to provide better guidance
-   [New guidance on verification][verification] of artifacts and build systems
-   [Updated provenance and VSA schemas][provenance-spec], with a clearer build
    model

## Stability and scope

[stability]: #stability-and-scope

The v1.0 release marks the first stable version of SLSA. We are confident that
the specification represents broad consensus and will not change significantly
in the future. Having a stable foundation enables organizations and ecosystems
to begin implementing and adopting SLSA with minimal risk of future breaking
changes.

That said, some concepts from v0.1 had to be deferred to a [future
version][future] in order to allow us to release v1.0 in a reasonable time
frame. The deferred concepts---source requirements, hermetic builds (SLSA 4),
and common requirements---were at significant risk of breaking changes in the
future to address concerns from v0.1. We believed it was more valuable to
release a small but stable base now while we work towards solidifying those
concepts in a future version.

Going forward, we commit to a consistent [versioning](/spec-stages#versioning)

> scheme based on semantic versioning. Backwards-incompatible changes will result

Author: Here a hyphen is appropriate. An em-dash (`---`) is used to separate clauses, whereas this is just a hyphenated word.

in a major version increase (v2.0, v3.0, etc.); significant backwards-compatible
changes will result in a minor version increase (v1.1, v1.2, etc.), while
editorial changes may be made without a version increase. Regardless of version,

> the high-level meaning of a level will not change; for example "Build L3" will

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what "the high-level meaning of a level" means. Shouldn't that simply be "the meaning of a level"?

Besides, does this mean we couldn't add a requirement to the Build track in SLSA 2.0 for instance? I am not sure this needs to be spelled out here but it may raise questions.

Author: Done

benefits provided by each level.

[Producing artifacts](requirements) explains requirements for the software
producer and the build platform. While the requirements are largely the same as
before---aside from those [deferred][stability] to a future version---there are
some minor changes to make SLSA easier to adopt. These changes include:
renaming, simplifying, and merging some requirements; removing the redundant
"scripted build" and "config as code" requirements; merging of the provenance
requirements into the recommended [provenance format][provenance-spec]; and
splitting the requirements between those for the Producer and the Build
platform.

[Distributing provenance](distributing-provenance) *(new for v1.0)* provides
guidance to software producers and package ecosystems on how to distribute
provenance alongside artifacts. We hope this brings consistency across open
source package ecosystems as they adopt SLSA.

[Verifying artifacts](verifying-artifacts) *(new for v1.0)* provides guidance to
package ecosystems and consumers for how to verify provenance and compare it to
expectations. It is discussed more in the following section.

> [Verifying build platforms](verifying-systems) *(new for v1.0)* provides a list

Reviewer 3: Did we want to change this page to `verifying-platforms` before the 1.0 release?

Author: Sure. That would be a separate PR.

of prompts for evaluating a build platform's SLSA conformance. It covers similar
ground as v0.1's common requirements, but in a different form. It is also
discussed in the following section.

[Threats & mitigations](threats) has been updated for v1.0, filling out parts
that were missing in v0.1. Note that labels D and E have swapped positions from
v0.1 to align with the grouping of Source (A-C), Dependency (D), and Build (E-H)
threats.

## Verification

[verification]: #verification

Another significant change in the v1.0 is documenting the need for provenance
verification.

SLSA v0.1 specified guidance for how to produce provenance but not how to verify

> it. This left a large gap—most threats targeted by SLSA are only mitigated by

Reviewer 3: I think readability would be improved here by changing the dash to `as`

> it. This left a large gap—most threats targeted by SLSA are only mitigated by

Author: Went with as.
